>> Scott Moss: So route slots or
AKA parallel routes.
I think route slots just
makes more sense to me.
Parallel, if I said, hey,
you could do parallel routes.
What do you think that would mean?
>> Speaker 2: It's only two.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, you could do two,
but like visually on the app.
>> Speaker 2: Always happened.
Side by Side.
>> Scott Moss: Side by side, yeah.
What does the URL look like?
Exactly, yeah [LAUGH] that's
the part that I'm talking about.
It's like, okay, so
I always just call them route
slots instead of parallel routes.
It's basically where you
can have different sections
of a layout be an individual route.
We'll dive into that a little bit and
index.js isn't the first framework to do
this or every framework I'll ever
use has had some concept of this.
If you ever use like OG Angler,
I think this was called,
actually I don't know what it was called,
I can't remember.
In view, it was actually called slots,
which is why I call them slots here,
because that's what it was called.
In fact,
you've actually already been using slots.
If you have a layout,
let's go to our main layout here.
We're using children, okay?
Children is actually the default slot.
It's the slot that you don't
have to configure yourself.
It's given to you for free.
In the case of a layout index.js
children is the current page,
the child page of this layout, right?
That's a slot.
What we're gonna be doing, parallel
routes or route slots are named slots.
Slots that we create ourselves and
we can put them in a layout and
we can put them wherever
we want in a layout.
That's basically the difference.
So, there are some benefits you
get simultaneous rendering.
So multiple components or pages can be
rendered at the same time within the same
layout, which can be really cool.
This is very similar to what we
talked about with the Astro Islands.
So if you have multiple components on
a page, each one of those is like its own
page, then they have their own caching
strategies, their own loading UIs,
their own error UIs,
whatever you wanna do on a per page basis,
now think of that only
per component basis.
That's basically what you get and then
you can do like conditional rendering.
So you might be able to say, I wanna show
this slot if the user's level is admin.
If they're not admin, show this slot.
So you can dynamically show different
slots depending on some logic and
then because it's server side,
you can access the database.
So there's some interesting
things you can do there that you
could not have done before index.js but
to be honest,
a lot of frameworks already really had
this if you've ever built a react app,
using like react router, like you're
able to do this pretty much already.
So it's just bringing
it over to index.js and
because index.js does routing
with folders and files,
they have to create a new syntax and
it looks like this, it has an at sign.
There's only so
many characters they can use and
[LAUGH] they chose the at sign, which
I'm starting to like it a little more.
I think I have some better opinions on it.
I might reach out to them and like,
hey, maybe we should try this but
I think it's good.
But basically when you make a folder
with an at sign in front of it,
you're telling index.js that,
hey, this is a slot, it's not us.
And again, a slot is a page
that's meant to be rendered
in a layout with a given name.
Maybe they should even just
call them slots, I don't know.
But you make a folder with
an at sign in front of it.
What this does, it's very similar
to a grouping where when you have
the parentheses around the folder,
that name does not get
included in the URL segment.
So does this if you have
a at sign in front of it,
the name does not get
included in the URL segment,
that it does not change the URL at all,
and because it doesn't need to.
And I'll show you what I
mean when we get into it.
But whenever you do this,
you make the folder, you now then have to
go into your layout, that is
the nearest parent of those folders,
and that layout will have as its props,
the names of those slots.
So if I had a folder called Team and
a folder called Analytics and
Slots in its parent layout,
inside of the props,
I'll have a prop called Team I
have a prop called Analytics.
And it's literally the same thing
as children with just those names.
I can put it wherever
I want it to lay out.
There are some caveats with this we'll
see in a little bit but so first,
we need to talk about two different types
of navigation just to preamble on that,
you have hard navigation, or
I call like server side navigation.
That's when you make a request, it goes
to the server, there's no caching, or
there might be caching, but you're
basically not using a client side router.
It's as if I went to your website,
typed it in the URL and hit enter.
It's gonna do a hard navigation, right?
But when you use the link component within
index.js, that's a client site router.
It doesn't go to the service.
That's soft navigation.
So when doing soft navigation,
index.js keeps track of what
the active slots are because again,
they're not bound to a URL path.
So the URL doesn't tell you what slot
you're on index.js has to keep track
of that for you.
But when you do a hard navigation,
it's impossible to know until your
layout starts to render and
that logic kicks in, it doesn't know.
And because those slots
are technically routes, they'll 404.
So you don't want like random 404 is
on your dashboard if you have like
multiple slots.
So what you have to do is make a default.
You make a default file in
the slot to say, hey, basically,
until you can figure out what slot
needs to get rendered here or
if it ever gets rendered, here's the
default component to render for this slot.
Most of the time it's
always just gonna be null.
It's just gonna return null,
which is actually a valid component.
You can return the index.js,
you could just say no.
At least from my experience,
I've always just returned null.
But if you don't use get a 404 and
you don't want that so.